EUDIW trust infrastructure (#1192)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/trust-artifact-oidfed.rst

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst
.. Included via infrastructure-trust.rst at title level '-' (level 1).

National Trust Artifacts
------------------------

> This section defines the National Trust Framework that is based on OpenID Federation (`OID-FED`_) combined with an X.509 PKI dedicated to the signature of Digital Credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section defines the National Trust Framework that is based on OpenID Federation (`OID-FED`_) combined with an X.509 PKI dedicated to the signature of Digital Credentials that requires X.509.
```

The X.509 profile is detailed in the :ref:`infrastructure-trust:Common Trust Artifacts`, while the following sections define the required Trust Artifacts and their conceptual roles defined in the following specifications of the OpenID Federation family, each within its own scope:

- OpenID Federation 1.0 (`OID-FED`_), the core framework.
  It defines the main artifacts including the Entity Statements, the federation endpoints and the Trust Marks.

> - OpenID Federation for Wallet Architectures (`OID-FED-WALLET`_) the wallet profile of OpenID Federation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OpenID Federation for Wallet Architectures (`OID-FED-WALLET`_) the Wallet implementation profile for OpenID Federation 1.0.
```

**Wallet Provider**

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/oidfed-ss-ta-leaf-wallet-provider.json
  :language: JSON

**Relying Party**

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/oidfed-ss-ta-leaf-relying-party.json
  :language: JSON

**Credential Issuer**

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/oidfed-ss-ta-leaf-credential-issuer.json
  :language: JSON

Subordinate Statement of an Intermediate
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The Federation TA issues a Subordinate Statement about the Federation Intermediate.
The ``constraints`` restrict the subtree of the Intermediate to the Relying Parties it can intermediate, and ``max_path_length`` is set to 1 to allow the single level of intermediation between the Federation TA and the affiliated Relying Parties.
It carries no ``metadata_policy``: the affiliated Relying Parties are bound by the Intermediate in the Subordinate Statements it issues about them.

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/oidfed-ss-intermediate.json
  :language: JSON

Subordinate Statement of Leaf issued by a Federation Intermediate

> """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subordinate Statement about a Leaf issued by a Federation Intermediate
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
```

Trust Mark Types and Schema
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Trust Mark identifiers MUST follow a hierarchical schema that reflects the authorization scope:

``https://<federation_authority_domain>/trust_marks/<purpose>/<entity_type>``

Where:

  - ``<federation_authority_domain>``: The domain of the issuing Federation Authority.
  - ``<purpose>``: The Trust Mark purpose.
    The ``registration-entity`` purpose is **REQUIRED** for all entities as a result of the onboarding process.
    Additional Trust Mark purposes MAY be defined for future needs, but they are not required for the authorization processes defined in :ref:`trust-evaluation:Authorization`.
  - ``<entity_type>``: The Entity Type Identifier of the subject, among those defined in :ref:`infrastructure-trust:Entity Type Identifiers and Metadata` (for example ``openid_credential_issuer`` or ``openid_credential_verifier``), and ``intermediate`` for a Relying Party Intermediary.

Trust Mark registration-entity
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Within IT-Wallet the ``registration-entity`` Trust Mark is the registration Trust Mark of an entity.

> The only Trust Mark issuer for the registration Trust Mark MUST be the Federation TA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The national Federation TA is the Trust Mark issuer recognized within the federation and the only who may enable other Trust Mark issuers using the `trust_mark_issuers` parameter in its Entity Configuration.
```

The registration Trust Mark of each affiliated Relying Party is also issued by the Federation Trust Anchor.
For this reason no dedicated intermediary field is present in the Trust Mark.
The onboarding of the Intermediary is defined in :ref:`onboarding-system:Relying Party Intermediary`.

**Trust Mark Structure**

Trust Marks in Entity Configuration MUST be represented as JSON objects containing the following claims:

.. list-table:: Trust Mark Object Claims (in Entity Configuration)
   :class: longtable
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 75

   * - **Claim**
     - **Description**
   * - **trust_mark_type**
     - REQUIRED.
       Identifier for the type of Trust Mark following the schema: ``https://<federation_authority_domain>/trust_marks/<purpose>/<entity_type>``.
   * - **trust_mark**
     - REQUIRED.
       A signed JSON Web Token representing the Trust Mark issued by the Federation Authority.

> The Trust Mark JWT (contained in the ``trust_mark`` claim above) includes the following claims:

Reviewer: we have to represent both the header and the payload, only the payload is described below. We must describe the header parameters as well the the typ value in particular
